Welcome back and this lecture will show you how you can use open C-v to connect to a USP camera or your
builtin laptop camera that will also show you how you can write a video stream to a file.
Let's get started by opening up Jupiter lab.
OK here we have a new notebook in Jupiter lab something that's really important to know is when you're
actually reading and video data.
It's important that you don't have multiple notebooks and multiple kernels trying to read in from a
video stream file that will start messing up the way open TV connects with the USP cameras because they'll
start conflicting with each other.
So a really good thing to do is open up this file viewer and make sure that you only have one kernel
and one notebook running whenever you're working a camera and video data and you can tell something's
running if you see a green little dot next to the notebook.
So notice these other three notebooks that I have here their kernels are shut down and you can always
right click and shut them kernels yourself manually just in case.
But I only have one notebook right now called lecturn up book and it's the only kernel that's running.
So whenever you're dealing with video files you want to make sure you'll have one kernel running.
Otherwise we'll get kind of a weird error.
That's really hard to interpret.
So I found out that the hard way.
But let's go ahead and continue.
We're going to start off by showing you how you can connect a camera to open sea.
We're going to import CB2 and the way we actually connect to a camera is really simple it's just a simple
command and you assigned some variable.
Often you just call it capture or kept for short a set that equal to to dot and then the command is
video capture.
You notice there's a video right there.
We'll be using that later to write a video stream to a file.
But we're going to save video capture and then you just passen zero.
And that's going to grab your default camera so we're going to grab the default camera right now.
And oftentimes you're going to want to grab the width and height of the actual capture that we can begin
to manipulate the video image and the way we do that is we'll say with and organise a capture dot net
or cap dock get whatever we happen to call this variable right here from the video capture we'll say
Cap get and then we say CB2 dot and then all caps cap Propp and you can hit tab here to start auto completing
this.
But the one we're going to look for is frame and you can grab things like the frame rate the frame count
but we're just looking here for width and height.
So we'll grab that one for the width and then we'll see height is pretty much the exact same thing except
instead of with it's going to be height.
So I'm going to copy and paste that and then we'll say right there.
Now something to note is this actually returns back a floating point number.
So if you're capturing and 10 ITP for instance you'll return something back like 10 eighty point zero.
And usually you actually want this to be an integer especially when you're working with it with open
C-v for maybe calculating the halfway point of your video and we'll see some examples of that later
on.
So often you're going to cast this as an integer early transform it to an integer.
So you'll see this quite often where you just say I.A. to transform this from a float like 10 point
zero to just 10:08 as an integer.
So that allows us to capture the width and height.
Keep my what I can do this every single time but I do want to show it to you now.
So that's the width and height.
And then what we're going to do is we're going to display the image.
So I will say while true
and we're going to say RTT comma frame and this is known as tuple and packing and we'll say Cap dot.
Right.
So what this command actually does is you can think of the thing that's being returned back by video
capture as just a series of images because all a frame is is just a single image and all the video is
just continually updating the image.
And what we can do is we can use a lot of the commands that we used before with image files except just
treat them on a single frame and then continually update over and over again on that frame.
And what happens is we're going to be able to use cap read to grab the frame and it returns back a tuple
which is why we're doing tuple and packing here.
We're going to be using this frame object to kind of manipulate and show.
And let's actually show you how you could convert a frame into grayscale will say Gray is equal to C.V
to dot see the color just as we've done before with images.
We take that frame as if it was a single image which it basically is and then say CB2 dot color underscore
B.G. are two
and then we'll display that image the exact same way we displayed images before by just saying CB2 that
in show frame great Keep in mind for a Mac OS or Linux you mean it's actually run as a separate Python
script.
And then finally we're going to wait until someone hits the escape key to stop showing this.
We'll say if CB2 dot wait key one so we wait 1 milliseconds and 0 x f f is equal to and you can do twenty
seven if you want the escape key.
But something else we can do is say oh already for ordinal and then pass in the string of the lower
case letter you want.
So this basically says until they press Q And then we'll go ahead and break out of that.
And then what's important to do here is typically what we've been doing is we say destroy all windows.
But before that we want to make sure that we actually stop capturing the video.
So often you'll also see this line cap that cap Thor release.
OK.
So that's all we need to actually capture video stream file.
Keep in mind right now we're not actually saving anything.
We're just continually capturing the image again.
We're just saying CB2 video capture passen zero to capture the default webcam that's connected to your
computer.
And then sometimes you may want the width and height in order to work with the video in some further
manner so you can capture that here.
We're not actually doing anything with it so we could technically comment this out and it wouldn't change
anything.
Later on we'll actually use this data and then we say While true so true while loop it's going to continue
on forever until we say go ahead and press Q In order to break this out.
And we're going to read off the camera.
It returns back this tuple.
Right now we're only using the frame essentially just the single images that the video capture is returning.
And then you can basically do whatever you want to that frame just like you would with an image.
So that's what this is showing the images coming in as color and I'm going to convert it to grayscale
and then I show it using it show.
Just like it would for a normal image.
Let's go ahead and run this and see if we can successfully see myself on the camera.
So I'm going to run there and there I am.
OK so I have my web cam kind of pointed at me.
And if I want to quit this I can just hit Q and I hit it out.
OK.
So he showed you how to convert the image to grayscale.
But let's imagine you just wanted to read in the raw color image.
All you need to do is comment out this gray and then instead of passing gray here we'll just pasand
that the direct frame.
So I'll say frame and this is just going to grab exactly what the camera is reading and then show it
in a window called frame.
Let's run this.
And there you have me now I should be in full color.
Good to see you guys there.
OK.
Let me press you to skate.
All right.
We just showed you how you can directly stream the video but we haven't actually saved that video file
anywhere.
There's going to be three important lines to add in and to actually write your stream to a video file.
The first one is to actually create a writer object writer as my variable is equal to C-v to dot video
writer.
And this video writer is going to take a couple of parameters.
The first one is the actual file and file path that you want to save this to.
So here I'm going to say my super video.
MP 4.
And if you want to save this file somewhere else you can just write in the full file path.
So if you want to save it in some deeper folder like data you can do something like that and just keep
going.
Keep in mind if you try to put in a file path a full there's that don't exist.
You'll get an error if you just it name before it's going to save it to the same location that this
notebook or your script is currently running if you're running this in a notebook and you're curious
well where I'm actually located on my computer you can always just scroll down to and you cell type.
There'll be the do shift enter.
And they'll tell you where you're currently located.
So underneath my downloads folder and end up saving this my super video that MP before I recommend you
give it some sort of unique name that you don't absolutely right over some previous data.
Okay now the next parameter is probably one of the most important ones to pay attention to.
It's going to be C-v to dot video writer underscore and you can tap autocomplete this for s.c.
So this is the actual video codec that you're going to be using to write this.
MP for file and what's really porn about this particular parameter is that it's going to be different
depending on your operating system.
So I'm going to go ahead and show you the link to the documentation tutorial that explains a little
bit about the codec you should be choosing.
And then I'll kind of clarify what it's actually trying to say.
So if you come over here this is linked in the actual resources for the lecture.
There's a 4 CC is essentially a four byte code used to specify the video codec and the list of all available
codes can be found at 4C C dot org and depending on what your actual operating system is you're going
to be choosing different codecs.
So if you're on a Ubuntu computer a fedora distribution or a Mac OS you're going to be using x v ID.
If you're on Windows you're going to be using Ivy X..
OK.
So let's go ahead and check this out.
The way you actually write the in inside of the 4 CC is you say an asterisk and that as a string you're
going to type in.
In our case since I'm going to Windows I'll be referencing here I'm going be doing the ivy X and often
this actually works on Ubuntu and OS X but just in case you may want to use XP ID since it's a little
more reliable for Ubuntu and Mac OS computers.
But in my case NSA DV I-X So just to make it clear if you're on Windows right now go with the ivy axe
inside that string.
If you're on Mac OS or Linux you're probably going to want to go with what they suggested which is x
v ID so that will be X-Fi ID.
And remember these are going to go a string C type in an asterisk and then a single or double quotes
and then Asterix here.
Activate the single or double quotes.
So keep in mind it's kind of tricky because it's almost same thing just the x's at the beginning or
the end depending on your operating system.
So is absolutely key.
Otherwise everything will run successfully but the file will get saved.
So keep that in mind since I'm a Windows I'll type out the ivy X in here.
So that's the codec we're going to be using the next parameter is how many frames per second you actually
want to record at.
Depending on what kind of USP camera you are probably limited in how many friends are actually captured
by your USP camera.
If you've ever seen a very high fidelity video of something that's shown in slow motion those kind of
specialized cameras capture a lot of friends per second.
So they're getting a lot more data per second of film than a typical camera.
Now you see cameras are generally not as good as those high fidelity cameras.
So so you're probably working off somewhere around like 30 francs per second.
And I would recommend you provide a number here somewhere between 20 and 30 and you can actually capture
the frames per second here using some of these C-v to capture property.
So if you do tab here it'll actually show you frame count.
So that's a nice way to figure out well how many frames I'm actually getting.
So you can go and experiment that but typically mostly just be cameras capturing around 30 frames per
second.
Depending on how close your camera is so just keep it safe.
I recommend providing a file number somewhere between 20 and 30 and rummer the more frames per second
and capture the larger this data files is going to be.
And then lastly we want to provide the width and height.
Luckily we actually already capture that information with height.
So let's try that as well as the width and height.
OK.
So that's our video writer object.
Remember to check the documentation.
One of the key points of confusion often with beginners is this line right here.
So you want to make sure you provide the right code there.
Now that we have a writer object created we just scroll down to this while true loop.
And once we actually reading in the frame we're going to write that frame that this MP for file.
So usually you're going to perform whatever operations you want so operations can be like drawing on
the actual video which will go over later.
And then once you're there with all the operations like object detection or object tracking then it's
time to actually write this.
So say writer that writes and you're going to write that frame.
So basically frame by frame you're going to be continually adding to this.
And before and then once you're finished writing and you've broken out of this while true loop then
once you release the capture you'll go ahead and also release the writer.
All right.
So the three main lines we added in is this video writer writing each frame and then releasing the writer.
So let's try this out.
I'm going to run this cell you should see me pop up here.
I'll say one two three hit Q to quit.
And then in my files over here I should now see at some point the MP for files show up.
So there it is updated.
And now I see my super video the MP 4.
And in fact I can go to my file viewer on Windows.
So let me open up this file viewer it downloads here and right here I can see my super video.
I'll double click on it and now my Windows computer is playing the video.
I just record it.
So that's all we need to do to actually write our video files.
OK.
So that's it for this lecture.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Coonerty forums.
Definitely probably the hardest part here is choosing the right codec.
If you're a Mac OS or Linux you may want to experiment with this.
If you get errors using XP I'd be OK.
We'll see you at the next lecture.